[Concept Entry] Go: slices (#1258)
Codecademy/docs: content/go/concepts/slices/slices.md

---
Title: 'Slices'
Description: 'Slices in Go are similar to arrays, but with the flexibility of being able to change their size.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Slices'
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

**Slices** in Go point to a section of an array. They are similar to arrays, but with the flexibility of being able to change their size. Care needs to be taken when modifying elements in slices that point to an existing array, as the element value will change in the underlying array. Slices have a length and capacity.

The length is the number of elements in the slice and can be found using `len(slice_name)`.

The capacity can be found using `cap(slice_name)`. It is the number of elements in the underlying array from the slice's start index to the end of the array.

## Creating and Initializing Slices

### Declare and Initialize a New Slice

#### Syntax

```pseudo
new_slice := []<datatype>{<values>}

> ```

Reviewer: It would be good to give a sentence explaining the above, especially the significance of the brackets.

Author: @SSwiniarski I added in this sentence:

> Slices can be declared and initialized like arrays, with a data type and a list of values, except without the size specified in the square brackets `[]`.

#### Example

A slice containing integers, the length and capacity will both be 5.

```go
  s := []int{1,2,3,4,5}
```

### A Slice from an Existing Array

A slice can be created from another array or slice.

#### Syntax

```pseudo
new_slice_from_array := <array_name>[<from_index>:<to_index>]

> ```

Reviewer: Again, a sentence describing the syntax given would be good.

Author: @SSwiniarski I added in this sentence:

> A slice can be created from another array (or slice) called `<array_name>`. The slice will contain elements from `<array_name>[from_index]` up to (but not including) `<array_name>[to_index]`. `<from_index>` and `<to_index>` are optional. If `<from_index>` is left blank, then the slice will start from the first element of `<array_name>`. If `<to_index>` is left blank, the slice will end at the last element of `<array_name>`.

#### Example

A slice created from an array `a`. The slice points to the elements from `a[2]` up to (but not including) `a[5]`.

```go
  s := a[2:5]
```

### An Empty Slice

A slice can be initialized using `make`.

#### Syntax

```pseudo
new_slice := make([]<datatype>, <length>, <capacity>)

> ```

Reviewer: Same comment as above.

Author: @SSwiniarski I added in this sentence:

> A slice with zero values can be created using `make`. The data type, length and capacity can be set using the syntax below. The new slice will be created with `<length>` number of zero value elements.

#### Example

A slice containing integers initialized to 0, with length of 5 and a capacity of 9.

```go
  s := make([]int,5,9)
```

#### Codebyte Example

> 

Reviewer: There should be a sentence or two introducing the codebyte and explaining what it does.

Author: @SSwiniarski I added in this intro to the codebyte:

> Here is a codebyte example demonstrating the different ways slices can be declared, outputting slice and array data values, length and capacity.

```codebyte/go
package main

import "fmt"

func main() {

  // Declare and initialize a slice in one line
  n := []int{1,2,3,4,5}
  fmt.Println("New Slice:", n,"Len:",len(n),"Cap:",cap(n),"\n")

  // Create a slice from an existing array
  a := [7]int{1,2,3,4,5,6,7}
  s := a[2:5]
  fmt.Println("Array:", a,"Len:",len(a),"Cap:", cap(a))
  fmt.Println("Slice from Array:", s,"Len:",len(s),"Cap:",cap(s),"\n")

  // Create an empty slice, setting length and capacity
  m := make([]int, 3, 8)
  fmt.Println("Empty Slice:", m,"Len:",len(m),"Cap:",cap(m),"\n")

}
```

## Accessing Slice Elements

Slice elements can be accessed in the same way as array elements.

### Syntax

```pseudo
<slice_name>[<element_index>]

> ```

Reviewer: Again, give a sentence describing the syntax.

Author: @SSwiniarski I added in this description:

> Below is the syntax to access an element at index `<element_index>` from a slice with the name `<slice_name>`.

### Codebyte Example

> ```codebyte/go

Reviewer: Again, give an into to the codebyte explaining what it does.

Author: @SSwiniarski I added in this intro:

> 
This shows how to access a slice element by declaring a slice `s` and then outputting the value of the third element of `s`.

---
Title: 'Slices'
Description: 'Slices in Go are similar to arrays, but with the flexibility of being able to change their size.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Slices'
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> **Slices** in Go point to a section of an array. They are similar to arrays, but with the flexibility of being able to change their size. Care needs to be taken when modifying elements in slices that point to an existing array, as the element value will change in the underlying array. Slices have a length and capacity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A **slice** in Go is a pointer to a section of an array. They are like arrays, but with the flexibility of being dynamically sized. Care needs to be taken when modifying elements in slices, as the element value will change in the underlying array. A slice has a length and a capacity.
```

> The length is the number of elements in the slice and can be found using `len(slice_name)`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The length of a slice is the number of elements in the slice. The length can be found using `len(slice_name)`.
```

> The capacity can be found using `cap(slice_name)`. It is the number of elements in the underlying array from the slice's start index to the end of the array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The capacity of a slice is the number of elements in the underlying array from the slice's start index to the end of the array. The capacity can be found using `cap(slice_name)`.
```

#### Syntax

Slices can be declared and initialized like arrays, with a data type and a list of values, except without the size specified in the square brackets `[]`.

```pseudo
new_slice := []<datatype>{<values>}
```

#### Example

A new slice containing integers, the length and capacity will both be 5.

```go
  s := []int{1,2,3,4,5}
```

### A Slice from an Existing Array

A slice can be created from another array or slice.

#### Syntax

A slice can be created from another array (or slice) called `<array_name>`. The slice will contain elements from `<array_name>[from_index]` up to (but not including) `<array_name>[to_index]`. `<from_index>` and `<to_index>` are optional. If `<from_index>` is left blank, then the slice will start from the first element of `<array_name>`. If `<to_index>` is left blank, the slice will end at the last element of `<array_name>`.

```pseudo
new_slice_from_array := <array_name>[<from_index>:<to_index>]
```

#### Example

A slice created from an array `a`. The slice points to the elements from `a[2]` up to (but not including) `a[5]`.

```go
  s := a[2:5]
```

### An Empty Slice

A slice can be initialized using `make`.

#### Syntax

> A slice with zero values can be created using `make`. The data type, length and capacity can be set using the syntax below. The new slice will be created with `<length>` number of zero value elements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A slice with zero values can be created using `make()`. The data type, length, and capacity can be set using the syntax below. The new slice will be created with `<length>` number of zero-value elements.
```

  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Slices'
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Data Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-go'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

A **slice** in Go is a pointer to a section of an array. They are like arrays but can dynamically sized. Care needs to be taken when modifying elements in slices, as the element value will change in the underlying array. A slice has a length and a capacity.

The length of a slice is the number of elements in the slice. The length can be found using `len(slice_name)`.

The capacity of a slice is the number of elements in the underlying array from the slice's start index to the end of the array. The capacity can be found using `cap(slice_name)`.

## Creating and Initializing Slices

### Declare and Initialize a New Slice

Slices can be declared and initialized in one line.

#### Syntax

```pseudo
new_slice := []datatype{values}
```

A slice is declared and initialized, similar to arrays, with a data type and list of values. However, the size is not specified within the square brackets `[]`.

#### Example

Below, a new slice containing integers is created with a length and capacity of 5:

```go
s := []int{1, 2, 3, 4, 5}

> //

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
